{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Power Supply for DC Project\ulnone \
\
\
As some of you have noticed for a while now I've tried to get this DC energy meter done and out there.\
\
I have a dilemma regarding the power supply.\
\
I have 2 approaches for each context. Category A: Generator/battery applications, for example solar and wind, with integral power supply.  Category B: Single source (battery only?) monitoring with integral power supply. Category C: Single source monitoring, end-user implemented powersupply.\
\
For Category A the requirements are 1) to handle voltages up to 80V, and 2) to disconnect the meter/logger by mechanical relay in event of overvoltage.\
For Category B the requirement is only 1) to handle voltages up to 80V.\
For Category C the idea is essentially to have a shunt monitor and an ADC on a breakout board. The user can define their own shunt, on board or externally. Their own 5V power supply can be selected by their preference, might be a buck converter, USB plug in supply etc.\
\
My dilemma is this. When handling voltages of up to 80VDC and providing enough power for the ESP8266, the only method I can find which reliably works is a switching regulator, typically requiring external components, like this - [http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/263040641193](http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/263040641193).\
Now, god knows how they're doing it for $2 on ebay.. and the power quality and noise radiation are unknowns, but these are the kind of components I'm talking about.\
Is there any other way of getting 5V out of 80V?\
\
Space saving and cost considerations for the end-user are my considerations. I've just thought now of a good method for Categories A, B and even C.. To have a well shielded DC buck converter module with headers, that could fit into any DC monitoring board I design. End-users could choose to buy the module or not depending if they have their own 5V source. A modular approach could be the way forward.\
\
Because of the diverse requirements of DC monitoring this could be a good way to go.\
\
Possible modules could be:\
DC BUCK CONVERTER POWER SUPPLY\
SHUNT with Cable Connections\
SHUNT MONITOR / ADC / ESP in one module.\
SD CARD\
RF69CW\
\
}